1. open vmware workstation
2. power on the hypervisior esxi
3.note down the ip address of the PM
4.open the vsphere client , enter the PM ip address, username and id as root and root123
5.Right click on the hypervisior , new virtual machine
6.It opens a dialougebox , select typical option(configuration)
7.Give a name for Vm and click next(name and location)
8.select the storage from list(default)
9.select the VM version as version 8 , next(VM version)
10.select the type of OS as windows and version as microsoft windows xp proffesion 32-bit , next(Guest OS)
11.select the no.of virtual cores(default)(CPU)
12.For creating a disk,select the amount of RAM as 8gb, thin provision undeer virtual disk,next(memory)
13.To create network connections , choose vm network option of NIC-1 CSE and under adapter select flexible , next(network)
14.select SCSI controller and LSI Logic Parallel(SCSI controller)
15.click on create new disk,next(select a disk)
16.enter the capacity of the disk as 512MB , thin privision and location be default , next
17.in the {advanced options} , default and {ready to complete step} , select eit vm settings and  Review the configuration and finish.
18.select the VM and click on Edit Virtual machine settings.
19.Click on CD/DVD drive 1, select datastore ISO file and locate the ISO on the datastore.
20.Turn on the virtual machine and proceed with normal installation of OS in to that VM.
---create another VM with the abpve steps ----
21. right click on the VM and select power on 
22. right ckick on the VM and click on open console 
23. Find the IP address of those VM’s using “ipconfig” command in command prompt
       -----------1a--------
24.Check the connectivity for the communication between those VM’s using PING command as 
“ping <ip address of other VM>”
25.the communication between virtual machines will be successful , whereas the communication between the PM and VM fails dispalying as time out 
26. For the communication , The firewall in the VM shoukd be disabled(go to control panel) and then again Check the connectivity for the communication using ping command.
       ---------1b-----------snapshot and restore 
27.create folders or files in the desktopof VM 
28.right click on the vm and select the snapshot to be stored , u can also name the snapsot,Then make changes/updates in the current VM 
29.if any file/data is deleted by mistake it can be retrieved back 
30.right click on VM ,seelct snapshot , select revert to current snaphot for restoring 
31.the deleted data is restored,If you ever taken too many snapshots for the same VM, need to manage and revert to required state of VM
32.before closing all the tabs, make sure to power off VM's to avoid crashing of system
